:11,editor,edit

                              The Editor
                              ----------

  When you write a news posting, a mail message, or a room description, you
will be placed into edit mode.  Whilst in this mode, everything you type
will be entered into the editor (using your current paragraph style - see
help .para), with these exceptions:

                   .<command> - use an editor command
                   /<command> - use a normal command

  When viewing what you have written (.view, .l), moving around the editor
(.bot, .top, .-, .+, .g), or replacing (.replace) and inserting text, you
will be shown the current line, along with its line number to the left.  The
star inbetween number and text shows that this is the current line - which
is useful when viewing the entire text, or if you have padding (.pad) turned
on.  

  Please also see the help pages for specific commands, and also these help
pages:  ranges, editor-commands, output

:output

  When you are shown text while in the editor, you will see the line numbers
alongside all viewed lines.  These are useful for moving around the buffer,
and for performing operaions such as moving blocks of text.  When you move
in the editor, you will be shown the current line.  If you have padding
turned on (lets say .. 2 lines), you will also be shown 2 lines above and
below the current line, with a star by the line you're actually at.

  If you activate pretty text, this means a newline will be printed before
any editor lines, to aid visibility.  You can have this nicer formatting
turned off (by setting pad and pretty off), or use the .format command to
give even line entry a padded/tidied appearance.

  When you enter a long line, and are seeing formatted output all the time,
the current line will have a * by it as normal, but the other lines that
were added in the operation will have - signs between the number and text.

:ranges,range

  Some commands in the EWe system can be used on more than 1 line at a time,
using ranges.  Ranges take 3 forms:

  1) A single value (2 for example)
  2) A single range (3-6 for example, meaning lines 3,4,5 and 6)
  3) A multiple range (3-6,9,13-14 for example, being lines 3,4,5,6,9,13,14)

  Multiple ranges take commas between ranges/values, and dashes between the
two numbers of a range.  If you specify a line more than once, the extra
mentions will be ignored (3-6,5 still means 3,4,5,6).  Please note than
ranges must always go from first to last, 6-2 for example is invalid!

:editor-commands

  Please see the specific help pages on each command for a full description.

  Old familiars from the normal talker editor:
  
  .del		- delete some lines
  .-		- go back a line
  .+		- go forward a line
  .view		- see what you've written
  .l		- view the current line
  .g		- goto a line
  .top		- goto the top
  .bot		- goto the bottom
  .wipe		- completely clear the buffer
  .stats	- show some stats about the buffer
  .quiet	- toggle whether you go into 'quiet' mode when editing 
  .end		- quit the editor and KEEP the changes
  .quit		- quit the editor and THROW AWAY any changes

  New EWe commands:

  .move		- move some lines
  .replace	- replace some lines
  .trunc	- control the auto-truncation feature
  .pretty	- toggle whether you get newline seperated output
  .insert	- toggle whether you insert before or after current line
  .para		- toggle the paragraph mode
  .format	- toggle when special formatting appears
  .s		- search for some text
  .n		- repeat last search (next match)

:del,.del

  .del		- Delete the current line, or a selection of lines using a
		  range.

  Format: .del [multiple range]
  See also: ranges

:-,.-

  .-		- Move up a line, the line will be displayed with the
		  surrounding lines if padding is enabled.

  Format: .-
  See also: .pad, .pretty, output

:+,.+

  .+		- Move down a line, the line will be displayed with the
		  surrounding lines if padding is enabled.

  Format: .+
  See also: .pad, .pretty, output

:view,.view

  .view		- View the entire editor buffer, with top/bottom boundary
		  markers if padding is enabled.

  Format: .view
  Seel also: .pad, .pretty, output

:l,.l

  .l		- View the current line, or the current line with its
		  surrounding lines if padding is enabled.

  Format: .l
  See also: .pad, .pretty, output

:g,.g

  .g		- Move to a certain line - it will be shown and the
		  surrounding lines above/below if padding is enabled.

  Format: .g <line>
  See also: .pad, .pretty, output

:top,.top

  .top		- Move to the top of the editor buffer.  The line will be
		  displayed along with the surrounding lines if padding is
		  enabled.

  Format: .top
  See also: .pad, .pretty, output

:bot,.bot

  .bot		- Move to the bottom of the editor buffer.  The line will
		  be displayed along with the surrounding lines if padding
		  is enabled.

  Format: .bot
  See also: .pad, .pretty, output

:wipe,.wipe

  .wipe		- Does exactly what you think it might - all lines are
		  erased!

  Format: .wipe

:stats,.stats

  .stats	- Shows you the current number of lines, number of included
		  lines (and percentage) and your editor settings.  It will
		  also show the current search text and direction if one
		  is set.

  Format: .stats
  See also: .pad, .pretty, .format, .trunc, .insert, .para, .quiet

:quiet,.quiet

  .quiet	- Toggle whether or not you go into quiet edit mode while in
		  the editor, which blocks tells and shouts.

  Format: .quiet

:end,.end

  .end		- Finish what you're writing.  If it is a news posting, it
		  will be checked for having too much included text to new
		  text, and will remain in edit mode if this fails.

  Format: .end

:quit,.quit

  .quit		- Abort the editing!  Make no changes!  Useful for panic
		  situations...

  Format: .quit

:move,.move

  .move		- Move the current line, or a group of lines to a new line
		  number.  When posting news, you will not be allowed to
		  move lines that are included text.

  Format: .move <line>			- Move the current line to <line>
          .move [single range] <line>   - Move a selection to <line>
  See also: ranges

:replace,.replace

  .replace	- Replace a line (or some lines) with a new line (or lines). 
		  It is quite possible to replace a single line with a
		  several line long sentence, and space will be made in the
		  buffer if possible/needed if you have truncation active. 
		  The new text will use your current paragraph setting.

  Format: .replace <single range> <new text>
  See also: ranges, output, .pad, .pretty, .format, .trunc, .para

:trunc,.trunc

  .trunc	- Turn on or change mode of auto-truncation.  This function
		  allows the editor to scroll (delete) lines from the top of
		  the buffer if you try to type too much.  It can be set to
		  off, included, or all - meaning no truncation, delete only
		  lines of included text, or delete any text.

  Format: .trunc <off/included/all>

:pretty,.pretty

  .pretty	- Turn on or off pretty output.  This causes an extra
		  newline to appear when you view lines of text, to aid
		  visibility and sanity.

  Format: .pretty [on/off]
  See also: output, .format

:insert,.insert

  .insert	- Toggle insertion of newlines before or after the current
		  line.  This now makes it possible to insert new text right
		  at the top.

  Format: .insert [on/off]
  See also: .para

:para,.para

  .para		- Change paragraph mode.  Paragraph mode controls how newly
		  entered lines are formatted, since a line of input can be
		  several lines of text on the screen.  It can be set to
		  off, for no paragraphing at all, 'ew2' for the old style
		  of having the first line start at the edge, and following
		  lines indented, and 'correct' for the correct style of
		  paragraphing (first line indented).

  Format: .para <off/ew2/correct>

:pad,.pad

  .pad		- Control how much padding you see either side of the
		  current line while navigation/adding text.  A visibility
		  aid.

  Format: .pad <0-7)
  See also: .pretty, .format, output

:format,.format

  .format	- Control when pretty text and padding appear if they have
		  been selected.  It can be set to 'navigation', so that you
		  only see pad lines and extra newlines when moving around
		  the buffer or viewing it, or 'all' so that you see them
		  while entering new lines or replacing existing ones.

  Format: .format <navigation/all>
  See also: output, .pad, .pretty, .replace

:s,.s

  .s		- Search for some text.  If you do not specify the
		  direction to search in, you will start to search from
		  the top of the buffer.  The search string and direction
		  becomes your current search, which you can repeat with
		  the .n command.

  Format: .s [f/b] <text to search for>
  See also: output, .replace, .n, .stats

:n,.n

  .n		- Repeat the last search.  If the last search was a top
		  down one, then your search will continue forward.  This
		  will search forwards or backwards according to the last
		  search.

  Format: .n
  See also: output, .replace, .s, .stats

: